the electrical system in a house is
often unseen as its main components are
hidden in the structure itself however
its presence is readily recognized as a
creature comfort
none of us could imagine living without
oftentimes this system is abused by
overloading circuits with demand that
the system cannot handle safely wires
then heat up and breakers trip such
unsafe practices throughout the home can
jeopardize the safety of the inhabitants
in order to better understand the
different needs of your home some
historical electrical systems will be
mentioned homes built from about 1915
through 1930 had a technique of wiring
called knob-and-tube wiring this
technique installed bare wires in the
homes attic walls and sub flowing
linking from insulator knob to insulator
knob this wiring method is extremely
dangerous and can still be found in use
today it is important to replace such a
system as soon as possible to meet the
current building and safety code
wiring with aluminum is an example of a
common building practice that was later
found to be unsafe aluminum was used in
wiring homes between 1965 and 1973 when
the price of copper was high during this
time the National Electric Code approved
the metal and about 1.5 million homes
were wired with aluminum later it was
found that the branch circuits that run
throughout the house were dangerously
overheat resulted in fires some studies
have shown that houses wired with
aluminum wiring are 50 times more likely
to have electrical problems than houses
wired with copper a good way to make
sure that your house is not wired with
aluminum wine is to check the main
electrical panel look at where the wire
insulation is tripped back and is making
a metal-on-metal connection to the
breaker here you can see that the wiring
used is copper on the contrary aluminum
wiring would look like this
additionally you should check the
outlets and switches of the house to see
if aluminum Warren was used it is highly
encouraged that you contact a licensed
electrician if the use of aluminum
wiring is found in the home an
electrician can ensure that newer
outlets and switches specifically
designed to maintain proper contact with
aluminum wire are installed improving
the stability of the system
though there is not much testing of the
electrical system that I walk through
can't accomplish you can however be
informed and ask the right questions
if you ever have any concerns regarding
the electrical system in the home you
are looking at have a licensed
electrical contractor examine the house
check throughout the house for any
open-circuit boxes or missing cover
plates as well as for any exposed or
loose wiring loose wiring prevents the
correct function of the electrical
system by not maintaining proper contact
between the circuits for safety reasons
loose wiring should be fixed immediately
extension cords should never be used as
permanent wiring they're not in
accordance with state electrical codes
and can create a fire hazard